---
title: Tiling window manager reviews
date: 2022-09-12
---

# i3 (and Sway)

This is probably the most popular tiling window manager. It uses the manual
tiling method. I really dislike manual tiling. In my opinion, the user should
not have to think about where the next window should be placed. In every other
aspect, i3 is really convenient, with a lot of configuration options to play
with.

Rating: 6/10

# bspwm

Really nice window manager, I really enjoyed the way the configuration works.
The fact that the config file is really just a script is a very smart idea.
Because of this, bspwm follows the Unix philosophy and uses a separate program
for managing keybinds. I think every Window Manager should work this way. I
have mixed opinions on the "binary tree" method of managing windows. On the one
hand, it is better than the fully manual i3 method, however you still have to
think somewhat about the tree structure. Again, the ultimate goal is to have to
think as little as possible about managing your windows.

Rating: 7.5/10

# dwm

An S-tier window manager. It does (amost) everything great. Very minimal, very
configurable, and it has the best window managing method out of all the window
managers. Replacing windows with tags is great idea. Managing windows based on
"a priority of tags" system is also a great idea. Sticky tags is also a great
idea. (Almost) everything about this window manager is a great. The only reason
i don't use it is... because it is based on the X window system

Rating: 9/10

# Hyprland

This is the window manager I am currently using. It is in early development,
however I am getting less bugs than what I was expecting when I installed it.
It is definately the most configurable tiling window manager for wayland, as I
am writing this, and as things are going, it will continue to be. I am mostly
using the master-slave layout, which in think is the most practical layout out
of everything I have tried.

Rating: 9.5/10 (10/10 when it gets out of beta)
